One of the greatest disappointment of all times was when I found out I was given a windows xp laptop at my new job. I have always used macs or linux for development. But since the new job was in a corporate environment, they had already sold their souls to microsoft well before I arrived. Their servers were running ASP.NET and I was told that's what I will have to use. After much fuss, I gave in and decided to teach myself ASP, C# and swore to try my best to emulate a more open sourced approach to writing code on a windows dev environment. I have made a few strides since that oath. In this blog post,, I will give you guys the secret sauce that helped me.

### What you will need

1. [git](http://git-scm.com/download/win) for windows. It comes pre packaged with a bash emulator called Git Bash and vim editor. When promted create a shortcut to Git Bash on your desktop.
2. [Junction](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-CA/sysinternals/bb896768.aspx) for creating symbolic links. Extract the junction.exe file into your Downloads folder.
3. Dotfiles repo that contains your vim config files. If you don't have one yet, you could use [mine](https://github.com/ramseydsilva/dotfiles).

### Setup

Fire up Git Bash (The shortcut you created on your desktop earlier) and run:

    $ cd ~
    $ git clone https://github.com/ramseydsilva/dotfiles dotfiles
    $ cd ~/dotfiles
    $ git submodule init
    $ git submodule update
    $ cd ~
    $ mkdir ~/bin
    $ cp ~/Downloads/junction.exe ~/bin/junction.exe
    $ ~/bin/junction _vimrc ~/dotfiles/.vimrc
    $ mv ~/share/vim/vim73 ~/share/vim/vim73.ori
    $ cp ~/share/vim/vim73.ori/vim.exe ~/share/vim/vim73/.
    $ ~/bin/junction ~/share/vim/vim73 ~/dotfiles/.vim
    $ touch ~/test.js
    $ vi ~/test.js

Tip: If you need to find the location of your .vimrc and your .vim folder on your windows environment. Just fire up vim and type in the commands :e $MYVIMRC and :e $VIM

You have now ported over your vim configuration files onto your windows vim installation, albeit some hacks. For me this setup works fine where I can use my vim editor to write code, and git for versioning. I use this setup in conjunction with [Microsoft Visual Web Developer 2010 Express](http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/eng/products/visual-studio-2010-express) to develop my ASP apps. It's not ideal but with having git and vim available, it takes most of the pain away. In a future blog post, I will touch upon my development workflow that I employ to do development, staging and deployment onto a windows server.

[[!tag windows vim git asp.net howto ]]
    
